With the help of this book, you will do the incredibly simple things that all programmers do to
learn a programming language:
1. Go through each exercise.
2. Type in each sample exactly.
3. Make it run.

the three most essential skills that a beginning programmer needs
to know: reading and writing, attention to detail, and spotting differences.


Reading and Writing
It seems stupidly obvious, but if you have a problem typing, you will have a problem learning to
code. Especially if you have a problem typing the fairly odd characters in source code. Without
this simple skill, you will be unable to learn even the most basic things about how software works.
Typing the code samples and getting them to run will help you learn the names of the symbols,
get you familiar with typing them, and get you reading the language.
Attention to Detail
The one skill that separates bad programmers from good programmers is attention to detail. In
fact, it’s what separates the good from the bad in any profession. Without paying attention to the
tiniest details of your work, you will miss key elements of what you create. In programming, this
is how you end up with bugs and diffi cult- to- use systems.
By going through this book and copying each example exactly, you will be training your brain to
focus on the details of what you are doing, as you are doing it.
Spotting Differences
A very important skill—which most programmers develop over time— is the ability to visually
notice differences between things. An experienced programmer can take two pieces of code
that are slightly different and immediately start pointing out the differences. Programmers have
invented tools to make this even easier, but we won’t be using any of these. You fi rst have to train
your brain the hard way—then you can use the tools.
While you do these exercises, typing each one in, you will make mistakes. It’s inevitable; even seasoned
programmers make a few. Your job is to compare what you have written to what’s required and fi x
all the differences. By doing so, you will train yourself to notice mistakes, bugs, and other problems.
